There are several methods for detecting keypoints and descriptors with OpenCV:

    SURF (Speeded Up Robust Features) is a feature detection and description algorithm that is similar to SIFT.
    It uses the Hessian matrix to detect interest points and computes the Haar wavelet responses to build local
    feature descriptors. SURF is faster than SIFT and more robust to noise and geometric transformations.

    SIFT (Scale-Invariant Feature Transform): A patented algorithm, but still available in OpenCV for non-commercial
    use. It is similar to SURF, but uses a different approach for scale-space extrema detection and descriptor computation.

    ORB (Oriented FAST and Rotated BRIEF): An open-source algorithm that is designed to be faster and more efficient
    than SURF and SIFT. It uses FAST keypoints and BRIEF descriptors, with modifications to improve rotation invariance.

    AKAZE (Accelerated-KAZE): An open-source algorithm that is based on the KAZE algorithm, but optimized for speed.
    It uses nonlinear scale space and a novel feature detector and descriptor.

    BRISK (Binary Robust Invariant Scalable Keypoints): An open-source algorithm that is designed to be faster and
    more efficient than SURF and SIFT, while still being robust to changes in viewpoint and illumination.
    It uses FAST keypoints and a binary descriptor.

    KAZE (Keypoint-Affine-Zero-crossing-ES): An open-source algorithm that is designed to be more robust to affine
    transformations than SURF and SIFT. It uses nonlinear scale space and a novel feature detector and descriptor.

    FAST (Features from Accelerated Segment Test): A fast corner detector that can be used to extract keypoints,
    but does not provide descriptors.

    Harris corner detector: Another corner detector that can be used to extract keypoints, but does not
    provide descriptors.

All of these methods have their own strengths and weaknesses, and may be more appropriate for certain types of
images and applications.